README.md, before:

# Kex

**English** | [日本語](./README.ja.md)


**Kex** is a lightweight Document Librarian and MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server designed to manage and serve coding guidelines and project documentation. It helps AI agents (and humans) access the right documentation at the right time.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/go-1.25+-blue)

## Features

-   **MCP Server**: Exposes documents via the Model Context Protocol (JSON-RPC), allowing AI agents to "read" and "search" your documentation.
-   **Structure Enforcement**: Enforces a strict schema for documentation using Frontmatter (ID, Title, Status, Keywords).
-   **Lifecycle Management**: Distinguishes between `draft` and `adopted` documents.
    -   **Draft**: Work-in-progress. Errors are warnings.
    -   **Adopted**: Source of truth. Errors avoid startup.
-   **CLI Tooling**:
    -   `init`: Scaffolds a new Knowledge Base.
    -   `check`: Validates all documents and reports integrity issues.
    -   `start`: Starts the MCP server (communicates via stdio).

## Use Cases

-   **Efficient Context Management**: Retrieve only the necessary guidelines during coding or design phases to prevent context bloating in LLMs.
-   **Structured Knowledge Base**: Enforce a strict schema and lifecycle (draft vs adopted) to keep documentation clean, trustworthy, and AI-ready.

## Installation

See [docs/installation.md](docs/installation.md).

## Getting Started

### 1. Initialize a Repository

Go to your project root and run:

```bash
kex init
```

This will create a `contents/` directory and a `.kex.yaml` configuration file. It will also generate `AGENTS.md`, which contains guidelines for AI agents.

**Options:**

- `--agent-type=claude`: Generate `CLAUDE.md` instead of `AGENTS.md` (optimized for Claude Code).


### 2. Write Documentation

Create markdown files in the `contents/` directory. Each file **must** have valid YAML frontmatter:

```markdown
---
id: my-guideline
title: Coding Standards
description: Guidelines for Go development
status: adopted
keywords: [go, style, lint]
---

# Coding Standards

Write your content here...
```

**Status Types:**
-   `draft`: Ignored by the server by default. Useful for work-in-progress.
-   `adopted`: Active and indexed. Must pass all checks. Errors prevent startup.

### 3. Validate Documents

Run the check command to verify your documents:

```bash
kex check
```

This will report:
-   Missing frontmatter
-   Filename vs ID mismatches
-   Parsing errors

### 4. Start the Server

Start the MCP server to allow AI connections:

```bash
kex start
```

**Options:**

- `--root <path>`: Specify the guidelines directory path (overrides `.kex.yaml` configuration).

*Note: This starts an interactive JSON-RPC session using stdio for communication. It is meant to be run by an MCP Client (like Claude Desktop).*

## MCP Tools Provided

Kex exposes the following tools to connected AI agents:

-   `search_documents(keywords: string[])`: Find documents matching specific keywords.
-   `read_document(id: string)`: Retrieve the full content of a document by its ID.

## Client Configuration

Please refer to [docs/editors.md](docs/editors.md) for configuring your specific MCP client (e.g., Claude Desktop, Windsurf, etc).

## Configuration

`.kex.yaml`:

```yaml
root: contents # Directory containing markdown files
```

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on the release workflow and development process.


## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: add positional arg support for project root

README.md, after:

# Kex

**English** | [日本語](./README.ja.md)


**Kex** is a lightweight Document Librarian and MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server designed to manage and serve coding guidelines and project documentation. It helps AI agents (and humans) access the right documentation at the right time.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/go-1.25+-blue)

## Features

-   **MCP Server**: Exposes documents via the Model Context Protocol (JSON-RPC), allowing AI agents to "read" and "search" your documentation.
-   **Structure Enforcement**: Enforces a strict schema for documentation using Frontmatter (ID, Title, Status, Keywords).
-   **Lifecycle Management**: Distinguishes between `draft` and `adopted` documents.
    -   **Draft**: Work-in-progress. Errors are warnings.
    -   **Adopted**: Source of truth. Errors avoid startup.
-   **CLI Tooling**:
    -   `init`: Scaffolds a new Knowledge Base.
    -   `check`: Validates all documents and reports integrity issues.
    -   `start`: Starts the MCP server (communicates via stdio).

## Use Cases

-   **Efficient Context Management**: Retrieve only the necessary guidelines during coding or design phases to prevent context bloating in LLMs.
-   **Structured Knowledge Base**: Enforce a strict schema and lifecycle (draft vs adopted) to keep documentation clean, trustworthy, and AI-ready.

## Installation

See [docs/installation.md](docs/installation.md).

## Getting Started

### 1. Initialize a Repository

Go to your project root and run:

```bash
kex init
```

This will create a `contents/` directory and a `.kex.yaml` configuration file. It will also generate `AGENTS.md`, which contains guidelines for AI agents.

**Options:**

- `--agent-type=claude`: Generate `CLAUDE.md` instead of `AGENTS.md` (optimized for Claude Code).


### 2. Write Documentation

Create markdown files in the `contents/` directory. Each file **must** have valid YAML frontmatter:

```markdown
---
id: my-guideline
title: Coding Standards
description: Guidelines for Go development
status: adopted
keywords: [go, style, lint]
---

# Coding Standards

Write your content here...
```

**Status Types:**
-   `draft`: Ignored by the server by default. Useful for work-in-progress.
-   `adopted`: Active and indexed. Must pass all checks. Errors prevent startup.

### 3. Validate Documents

Run the check command to verify your documents:

```bash
kex check
```

This will report:
-   Missing frontmatter
-   Filename vs ID mismatches
-   Parsing errors

### 4. Start the Server

Start the MCP server to allow AI connections:

```bash
kex start
```

Or specify the project directory:

```bash
kex start ./my-project
```

**Options:**

- `--root <path>`: Override the guidelines content directory path (defaults to value in `.kex.yaml` inside the project root).

*Note: This starts an interactive JSON-RPC session using stdio for communication. It is meant to be run by an MCP Client (like Claude Desktop).*

## MCP Tools Provided

Kex exposes the following tools to connected AI agents:

-   `search_documents(keywords: string[])`: Find documents matching specific keywords.
-   `read_document(id: string)`: Retrieve the full content of a document by its ID.

## Client Configuration

Please refer to [docs/editors.md](docs/editors.md) for configuring your specific MCP client (e.g., Claude Desktop, Windsurf, etc).

## Configuration

`.kex.yaml`:

```yaml
root: contents # Directory containing markdown files
```

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on the release workflow and development process.


## License

MIT
