docs/cli.md, before:

# CLI Reference

## `kex init`

Initializes a new Kex repository.

```bash
kex init [options]
```

- **Interactive Mode**: Prompts for AI Agents (Antigravity, Cursor, Claude) and Scopes (Coding, Documentation) if no flags provided.
- **Flags**:
    - `--agents=<agent>`: Select AI agents (can be repeated).
    - `--scopes=<scope>`: Select scopes (can be repeated).
- Creates `.kex.yaml` with selected configuration.
- Creates `contents/` directory.
- Generates Agent Rule Files (e.g. `.antigravity/rules/kex-coding.md`) based on selections.

## `kex check`

Validates the integrity of your documentation repository.

```bash
kex check
```

Checks for:
- Invalid YAML Frontmatter
- ID vs Filename mismatches
- Missing required fields
- Duplicate IDs
 
 ## `kex add`
 
 Adds a new document source to your configuration.
 
 ```bash
 kex add <path|url>
 ```
 
 - **path**: A local directory path (relative to project root). Checks for existence.
 - **url**: A remote URL (must be reachable).
 - **Behavior**: Appends the source to the `references` list in `.kex.yaml`.

## `kex start`

Starts the MCP Server.

```bash
kex start [options]
```

Starts the MCP Server.

- **Sources**: Loads configuration from `.kex.yaml`.
    - Primary `source` directory.
    - All configured `references` (local paths and remote URLs).

> **Note**: To configure sources, use `kex add` or edit `.kex.yaml`.

- **Flags**:
    - `--cwd=<path>`: Specific working directory.
    - `--log-file=<path>`: Write logs to a file instead of Stderr.



## `kex generate`

Generates a static site structure for remote hosting (GitHub Pages).

```bash
kex generate [output-dir]
```

- Validates all "Adopted" documents.
- Creates a `dist/` directory.
- Generates `kex.json` (Index).
- Copies markdown files to `dist/`.

## `kex update`

Updates the Kex system documentation and agent configuration in an existing repository.

```bash
kex update [options]
```

- **System Docs (`contents/documentation/kex/*`)**: Updates to match the current binary version (Overwrite).
- **Agent Rules**: Updates based on the `.kex.yaml` strategies (Overwrite).
- See `.kex.yaml` configuration to customize behavior.

Commit message:

docs: update CLI and MCP documentation
- Update 'kex start' usage to show support for multiple paths and URLs\n- Add 'exactScopeMatch' parameter documentation to 'search_documents' tool\n- Add utility use cases for 'exactScopeMatch'

docs/cli.md, after:

# CLI Reference

## `kex init`

Initializes a new Kex repository.

```bash
kex init [options]
```

- **Interactive Mode**: Prompts for AI Agents (Antigravity, Cursor, Claude) and Scopes (Coding, Documentation) if no flags provided.
- **Flags**:
    - `--agents=<agent>`: Select AI agents (can be repeated).
    - `--scopes=<scope>`: Select scopes (can be repeated).
- Creates `.kex.yaml` with selected configuration.
- Creates `contents/` directory.
- Generates Agent Rule Files (e.g. `.antigravity/rules/kex-coding.md`) based on selections.

## `kex check`

Validates the integrity of your documentation repository.

```bash
kex check
```

Checks for:
- Invalid YAML Frontmatter
- ID vs Filename mismatches
- Missing required fields
- Duplicate IDs
 
 ## `kex add`
 
 Adds a new document source to your configuration.
 
 ```bash
 kex add <path|url>
 ```
 
 - **path**: A local directory path (relative to project root). Checks for existence.
 - **url**: A remote URL (must be reachable).
 - **Behavior**: Appends the source to the `references` list in `.kex.yaml`.

## `kex start`

Starts the MCP Server.

```bash
kex start [options] [...paths|urls]
```

Starts the MCP Server.

- **Sources**: Loads configuration from `.kex.yaml`.
    - Primary `source` directory.
    - All configured `references` (local paths and remote URLs).
- **References**: Any additional paths or URLs provided as arguments are added as temporary references.

> **Note**: To configure sources, use `kex add` or edit `.kex.yaml`.

- **Flags**:
    - `--cwd=<path>`: Specific working directory.
    - `--log-file=<path>`: Write logs to a file instead of Stderr.



## `kex generate`

Generates a static site structure for remote hosting (GitHub Pages).

```bash
kex generate [output-dir]
```

- Validates all "Adopted" documents.
- Creates a `dist/` directory.
- Generates `kex.json` (Index).
- Copies markdown files to `dist/`.

## `kex update`

Updates the Kex system documentation and agent configuration in an existing repository.

```bash
kex update [options]
```

- **System Docs (`contents/documentation/kex/*`)**: Updates to match the current binary version (Overwrite).
- **Agent Rules**: Updates based on the `.kex.yaml` strategies (Overwrite).
- See `.kex.yaml` configuration to customize behavior.
