examples/contents/coding/prevent-dead-code-asset-mismatch.md, before:

---
id: prevent-dead-code-asset-mismatch
title: Prevent Dead Code and Asset Mismatch
description: Guidelines for maintaining synchronization between application logic and static assets.
status: adopted
keywords: [best-practice, maintenance, cleanup, assets, dead-code]
---

# Prevent Dead Code and Asset Mismatch

## Context
Codebases often contain logic coupled with static assets (templates, config files, images). A disconnect between the two leads to technical debt and bugs.

## The Principle
**"Do not leave dead code, unnecessary logic, or unused assets."**

1.  **Logic without Assets is Dead Code**:
    If you write code to process a file (e.g., specific handling for `AGENTS.md` in a generator), but that file does not exist, the code is unreachable/dead. It clutters the codebase and misleads developers.
    *   *Action*: If the asset is needed, ensure it exists (even as a placeholder). If not, delete the logic.

2.  **Assets without Logic are Bloat**:
    Files sitting in your repository that are never read, processed, or deployed should be removed.
    *   *Action*: Delete unused files to reduce noise.

## Implementation Guideline
*   **When Deleting Assets**: Always search the codebase for references (filenames, paths). Remove the corresponding handling logic.
*   **When Adding Logic**: Verify the target asset exists. If the logic depends on iteration (e.g., `fs.WalkDir`), ensure the asset is present in the walked directory to trigger the code.
*   **Testing**: Add tests that fail if a required asset is missing, rather than failing silently (which hides the dead code).

Commit message:

docs: standardize structure of new guidelines
Formatted prevent-dead-code-asset-mismatch.md and avoid-unrequested-scope-expansion.md to match existing guidelines (Summary, Rationale, Guidance).

examples/contents/coding/prevent-dead-code-asset-mismatch.md, after:

title: Prevent Dead Code and Asset Mismatch
description: Guidelines for maintaining synchronization between application logic and static assets.
keywords:
  - best-practice
  - maintenance
  - cleanup
  - assets
  - dead-code
---

## Summary
Do not leave dead code, unnecessary logic, or unused assets. Ensure perfect synchronization between application logic and the static assets (templates, images, etc.) it processes.

## Rationale
- Use of nonexistent assets leads to phantom logic that confuses developers.
- Unused assets bloat the repository and reduce signal-to-noise ratio.
- Coupled logic (like generators) requires both the code and the target asset to functional correctly.

## Guidance
1.  **Logic without Assets is Dead Code**: If you write code to process a file (e.g., specific handling for `AGENTS.md`), ensure that file exists. If the asset is removed, remove the logic.
2.  **Assets without Logic are Bloat**: Delete files that are never read, processed, or deployed.
3.  **Search References**: When deleting assets, search for path strings to clean up handling logic.
4.  **Fail Fast**: Prefer tests that fail when an expected asset is missing over logic that silently skips it.

## Examples

### Bad
Writing a generator loop that checks for `AGENTS.md` when no such file exists in the templates folder. The code runs but does nothing, confusing future maintainers.

### Good
If logic exists to process `AGENTS.md`, a placeholder `assets/templates/AGENTS.md` exists to verify that logic is active and tested.
